>> Kent C. Dodds: All righty,
so one of my favorite patterns,
right next to renderProps
is a state reducer pattern.
So let's pop in our test here,
testing the exercise version.
And the error that we're getting here
is actually if you look at the test
it's kind of fun.
We're just calling
toggle a bunch of times.
I added little comments just to make
things a little less confusing.
So, at toggle number five, so between
each one of these it should be off,
it should be on, it should be off,
it should be on.
And then when I toggle it
the fourth time it should be off.
And then the rest of the times I try
to toggle it, it should stay off.
And then we do some assertions to
make sure things are called properly.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And so
where it's failing is,
it's toggling at that fifth time,
but it should stay off.
It's not, it's toggling on.
So that is what we're going to solve here
with our internal set state function.
This is going to accept our updates or
you could call it changes,
that's what I called it, callback.
So the stimulate is the same
kind of API that set state has.
So all of the times that you're
calling set state, you should now
call Internal Set State, and it will take
care of Client Set State under the hood.
So, that's what this koala bear was doing.
I should have put them right there and
then right there,
but it is what it is, sorry, Cody.
Okay, so with that,
we're going to call this Set State.
And we're get our state as an argument
to our updater function then we'll pass
a call back as the second parameter.
So we can call onToggle and
on reset when that states happened.
Okay, so
now that we have the current state here.
Maybe, I'll just differentiate
it by calling it current state.
We need to get what the actual
changes are, because in some cases,
the changes will just be an object.
In other cases,
the changes could be a function.
So we need to get what those changes are.
So I'll have, let's see,
what did I call it?
The, I don't know, actual changes,
or the changes object.
So I called it, and they would say
type of changes, it's a function.
Then I'll call it with the current
state otherwise we'll just use changes.
Okay cool, and let's give myself
a little more room on the editors side.
Okay, so
now we have the changes object and
that's what we're gonna be
calling the state reducer with.
So, I will say,
reducedChanges = this.props.stateReducer,
with the currentState and
the changesObject.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And its responsibility
is to take that changes object and
return me a new one.
And that's what I'm gonna return
from my updater, reduced changes.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And that's it,
that's the simple case.
There are a couple other things we need
to consider but that's the basic idea of
a state reducer is it internally,
inside the component,
you replace all usages of set
state with internal set state.
And that uses an update or function
to get what the changes should be and
then replaces or returns the reduced
version of those changes.
Now, the reducer could just return
the changes objects that you give it.
That's totally cool if it does that.
Or it could totally change it totally
change it to something entirely different.
But whatever it gives us back is
what we're gonna be returning.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So there are a couple
other things that I wanna talk about
here but.
And I'll go ahead and
do this really quick actually.
So let's say that the state
reducer will return null.
Or, sorry, it returns an empty object,
in some cases.
So return empty object.
So in that case, there are no updates,
and so a rerender is not necessary.
Because no state is going to be changed.
And so up here, we can say object.keys,
reduce changes.length.
So if it has keys,
then we'll return the reducechanges,
otherwise we'll return null and that
will prevent or unnecessary re render.
In addition to that,
they could also return null from their
state reducer to indicate that hey.
I don't want any changes and we want them
to be able to do either and it's fine.
You want to return an object,
that's whatever.
So we'll just add or an empty object so
it doesn't blow up when we do object keys.
So if they return no,
we'll default that to an empty object.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, what questions
do you have about state reducers?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah?
>> off screen male: Props on using
super.setstate and just making this
dot set state transparent to the class?
Or would you rather just be explicit?
>> Kent C. Dodds: I see what you mean,
so like having set state.
Yeah, yeah, and then super?
Yeah, that's interesting,
that would be fine with me.
I think that if I were to come into
a code base and see we're just set state.
And then I realize that's actually
not set state as I'd imagined,
that might be confusing to me.
But I'm totally cool with that,
if you want to do it that way.
Then these would be setState,
and that'd be kinda nice.
Like you said, transparent like
everywhere else in the code.
So yeah,
I'm pretty sure that will pass the test,
feel free to do that if you want.
Other questions, or
comments, observations?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, so one other
thing, I was going to do this but
then I had some people review
my stuff before the workshop and
they felt this was a little bit confusing.
But I actually kind of like this.
One thing that I did was I'd say
return this array of changes,
and then I'd call map on it over and
over again and pull out the first one.
And what this allows me to do is rather
than creating a bunch of variables,
I can do this.
See that.
And then do this one, so
that's the new changes, and
each one plays into the next and
we do this
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
then we get rid of all this stuff.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So if you're looking
at that and you're also confused,
feel free to continue using the variables.
But what I like about this is that
I can easily add more operations to
the changes object without
having to create more variables.
So what does this effectively doing as
we turn this into an array only for
the purpose of being
able to come up on it.
And it's gonna map the whole item and
we'll pull the last or the first item off,
which is gonna be our one item.
So we say, here our changes,
if its a function, then we'll call it and
we'll turn the changes.
And here are the changes
we're gonna reduce it and
we'll return the changes,
here the changes.
We'll check its length then
we'll return the changes.
And then, so
you have to do it all the way.
I kinda think it's look kinda clean but
if it's confusing to you all,
then that's why I in the solutions,
that you will be working with these stuff,
these is the very rules.
But I just wanna show this to you,
if you wanna do this with, yeah, question.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, is there
something wrong with this implementation?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, okay so, here
maybe I'll copy it over and test pass.
So I'm gonna change setState to internal
or setState so I don't confuse myself.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, so their solution,
comment that some more
aas something like this.
And we'll change this to callback and
just updater oops.
Okay, so, there are couple of
problems with this implementation.
So as we were talking about before,
you need to use.
If you want your set state operation
to reference preexisting or
the current state, and
to avoid issues with set state batching,
then you don't want to
reference this.state.
You'll use an updater function.
So that's the first thing that I would say
to avoid here is, make sure that all of.
The code that's referencing the current
state lives within an updated function,
to avoid inconsistencies with a state.
Other than that this essentially looks
pretty similar to what we had here,
and, so, yeah,
other than that it's pretty much the same.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Here,
the updates the user or the state reducer,
whoever is using the state reducer could
actually return an empty object or null.
And so that's why we're doing
this object.keys thing.
But you could enforce in your API and say,
hey listen, if you don't want a re-render
then return null If you return an object
then that's just what I'm gonna return.
I just added the this little line for
convenience.
So okay so
taking this back to what the solution
is that you'll be looking at.
Looks something like this.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay,
what other questions do y'all have?